the international court of justice has
ordered Israel to take all necessary
measures to ensure humanitarian
assistance gets into Gaza the court says
Palestinians there are already suffering
famine and Aid must be delivered without
delay until that happens German and
French air crews are among those trying
to relieve the food shortage with air
drops but as DW's Tanya crma reports
their efforts are both difficult and
disputed
six cargo planes wait on the tar at this
air base near Aman
Jordan inside this Hercules the French
German crew runs through a final
briefing before takeoff they have
recently joined an international Mission
airdropping Food and supplies into Gaza
where people are on the brink of
starvation is in the key thing about the
flight is that the first attempt at
delivering the load must be successful
the scheduling is very tight between all
the participating Nations so we only get
one go at this everything is double and
triple checked this flight is carrying 5
tons of Aid what we have here is uh
mainly food of course everybody here
involved knows this is not enough and
it's certainly not the fastest and the
most efficient way of getting Aid into
Gaza where the delivery by land would be
so much faster but people here saying
it's better than nothing uh to deliver
this Aid to the people in Gaza a groups
want Israel to open additional land
routes until they do these airdrops are
providing a Lifeline for a
few it's knowing that we're doing
something it's the only thing we can do
at the moment that it's helping even if
only a bit of course I hope that other
political Solutions can be found
that there is a ceasefire that the
borders are opened that Aid can come in
and that long-term Solutions can be
found such air drops have been
criticized because they don't organize
distribution of the Aid on the ground in
the chaos the strongest help themselves
first and many are left
empty-handed and there's a safe issue
too we have here the pallets with the
packages in
bags and on top there are
parachutes each of them has several
parachutes according to the weight of
the
package they will open once they leave
the airplane to slow down the
impact
material but occasionally the parachutes
fail to open or the eight lands in the
sea people have been killed injured and
some drowned trying to get packets from
the water recent drops were made along
gaza's Coastline it's time for takeoff
the flight time from Aman to Northern
Gaza is only about 30
[Music]
minutes seeing the destruction it's the
first time we can actually see with our
eyes we have been allowed as horn Jour
into GA since October 7 sent Terror
attacks by Hamas so you actually
shopping to see the
destruction then it's time for the crew
to drop their five
pallets
in the absence of the opening of more
land Crossings and a ceasefire which
could bring a respite for the people of
Gaza this drop should help at least some
people and as we just saw there dropping
aid from the air has a variety of
problems attached not least that it
simply doesn't provide anywhere near
enough food to feed 2 million gazin it's
one of a number of ways that
International governments and Aid
agencies are trying to solve what's
become a life and death problem of
Logistics in theory food and Medical Aid
can get into Gaza via Land Air and sea
for now ships unload at Port s in Egypt
and freight trucks take it to the gazen
Border many countries are airdropping
Aid this despite the deaths of people
hit by packages or who drowned trying to
retrieve Aid that fell in the
Mediterranean in an effort to speed up
deliveries the US plans to build a
floating platform off the Gaza Coast
it's unclear exactly where that will be
it's the same design as this one built
in the United Arab Emirates experts say
that will still not be enough Overland
routes are the most efficient way to
bring food in but inspections make it a
lengthy process Aid trucks are inspected
by Egyptians in El arish they are then
inspected by Israelis at the Kum Shalom
Crossing or in nitsana and only then
head to the Rafa Crossing where they are
often delayed
again earlier this month a new road
crossing known as gate 96 opened up
which is little more than a hole in the
Border fence this route allows trucks
directly into gaza's desperate northern
areas and avoids a long drive through
the conflict Zone joining me now for
more from ramala is Hiba TB West Bank
and Gaza country director for the
humanitarian organization care thanks
for joining us miss TB the un's top
court has ordered Israel to ensure more
Aid is allowed into Gaza including
opening up more land Crossings what do
you expect will
happen good morning um we hope that this
is going um to allow us to uh facilitate
uh Aid entry in a more consistent and
with good quantities to the South and to
the north uh in the coming weeks
unfortunately uh although this this call
is not uh possible to be enforced on the
ground but we are so optimistic that uh
this time it might be different where uh
we have seen from the Israeli government
announcements that they will do their
best to allow for that it's 6 months
already and what we have seen as a bad
situation became worse and worse and now
we don't even have words to describe
what is happening in the north as your
correspondent explained when she has
seen the images from the sky uh on the
question of Aid deliveries Israel has
always denied accusations from the UN
and others that it's obstructing
deliveries into Gaza and says that it's
the aid agencies that need to do more to
ensure food and supplies are distributed
does Israel have a
point so let me um let me just be uh
give you two two numbers that are are
going maybe to clarify the situation the
number of trucks that are entering to
Gaza is at its best best at its best
over the last two months was at 160 the
need is before War where everyone was
would have stored some food have their
supplies in the houses would be 500 now
everyone don't have supplies so 160
compared to 500 before were the second
thing is that unfortunately trucks are
crowded on the rafah side of the border
on the Egyptian side of rafah border and
they are not allowed in so the trucks
are there the assistance is B but it is
not entering to the to Gaza now more
importantly the very limited quantities
that are entering to Gaza are focused in
the South and this is why we have seen
these terrible images of people and kids
specifically dying out of dehydration
and starvation uh um in the north of G G
the the icj has warned that Palestinians
in Gaza are cot no longer facing only a
risk of famine but that famine is
setting in after 6 months of war is that
your assessment as
well yes unfortunately K was part of the
organizations that CED on what we call
IPC report and this is what we have seen
and even without having all these
numbers we are in constant cont constant
contact with our partners and program
participant ANS in the north and they
would tell you we are seeing our kids
fading on daily basis without even tests
so they are fainting they are not
healthy with their own eyes so imagine
what would be uncovered when they have
medical tests in the future indicating
what is happening because of
malnutrition and
dehydration we'll leave it there for the
time being hia TV in ramala Care West
Bank and Gaza country director thanks so
much thank
you